Docs on package scopes (#7464)
microsoft/FluidFramework: docs/content/docs/build/packages.md

---
title: Packages
menuPosition: 7
author: tylerbutler
---

The Fluid Framework is a multi-layered system consisting of dozens of individual npm packages. Most developers will only
need two or three of these packages for typical Fluid development: The `fluid-framework` package, which contains the
public API for the Fluid Framework, and a service-specific client package, such as the
`@fluidframework/tinylicious-client` package.

## Primary API: fluid-framework

The `fluid-framework` package bundles a collection of Fluid Framework client packages for easy use when paired with a

> corresponding service client package, such as the `@fluidframework/azure-client` package. The `fluid-framework` package

Reviewer: i thought it was a bit odd that this sentence was basically the same as the previous one, but used a different example.  may be better to use the same example and link to the available service clients page

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I think we can just axe the first sentence. GitHub is being odd about suggestions atm so I can't select it.

> The `fluid-framework` package bundles a collection of Fluid Framework client packages for easy use when paired with a
> corresponding service client package, such as the `@fluidframework/azure-client` package. The `fluid-framework` package
> consists primarily of two portions: the `IFluidContainer` interface and a selection of distributed data structures
> (DDSes).

Author: ```suggestion
The `fluid-framework` package consists primarily of two portions: the `IFluidContainer` interface and a selection of distributed data structures (DDSes).
```

> ### IFluidContainer

Reviewer 2: I'm concerned about the implications of talking about the interface vs the object. The main problem I have is that talking about interface means talk about Typescript. This is not inclusive to the JavaScript community and honestly confusing IMO. I know Matt updated the readme to support this syntax but I feel that talking about interfaces are to OO of a concept for JS devs.

Reviewer 2: I would rather this section talk about `FluidContainer`

Author: Where do I see the FluidContainer type show up? I.e. is there any time where I am going to get back a FluidContainer as opposed to an IFluidContainer?

The [IFluidContainer][] interface is the one of
the types returned by calls to `createContainer()` and `getContainer()` on the service clients such as `AzureClient`. It

> includes functionality to retrieve the Fluid data contained within a container, as well as to inspect the state of the

Reviewer: how well understood is the container concept expected to be at this point?  thinking if "within the container" or "within itself" (or something else) might make more sense here.  someone unaware of the underlying container bit might be wondering about that relation

Author: ```suggestion
includes functionality to retrieve the Fluid data contained within itself, as well as to inspect the state of the
```

collaboration session connection.

> ### DDS packages
> 
> You'll use one or more DDSes in your container to model your collaborative data.  The `fluid-framework` package includes
> three data structures that cover a broad range of scenarios:

Reviewer 2: Let's just use the generic shared object term.

```suggestion
### Shared object packages

You'll use one or more shared objects in your container to model your collaborative data.  The `fluid-framework` package includes
three data structures that cover a broad range of scenarios:
```

1. [SharedMap][], a map-like data structure for storing key/value pair data.
2. [SharedDirectory][], a map-like data structure with ability to organize keys into subdirectories.
3. [SharedString][], a data structure for string data.

## Package scopes

Fluid Framework packages are published under one of the following npm scopes:

- @fluidframework
- @fluid-experimental
- @fluid-internal
- @fluid-tools

> Unless you are contributing to the Fluid Framework, you should only need packages from the **@fluidframework** scope.

Reviewer: is it worth calling out `fluid-framework` here which is scopeless?

Reviewer 2: and `tinylicious` service

> 
> Unless you are contributing to the Fluid Framework, you should only need packages from the **@fluidframework** scope.

Author: ```suggestion

In addition to the scoped packages, two unscoped packages are published: the `fluid-framework` package, described earlier, and the `tinylicious` package, which contains a minimal Fluid server. For more information, see [Tinylicious]({{< relref "tinylicious.md" >}}

Unless you are contributing to the Fluid Framework, you should only need the unscoped packages and packages from the **@fluidframework** scope.
```

You can [read more about the scopes and their intent][scopes] in the Fluid Framework wiki.

[scopes]: https://github.com/microsoft/FluidFramework/wiki/npm-package-scopes

<!-- AUTO-GENERATED-CONTENT:START (INCLUDE:path=docs/_includes/links.md) -->
<!-- Links -->

<!-- Concepts -->

[Fluid container]: {{< relref "containers.md" >}}

<!-- Classes and interfaces -->

[ContainerRuntimeFactoryWithDefaultDataStore]: {{< relref "containerruntimefactorywithdefaultdatastore.md" >}}
[DataObject]: {{< relref "dataobject.md" >}}
[DataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "dataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[IFluidContainer]: {{< relref "ifluidcontainer.md" >}}
[PureDataObject]: {{< relref "puredataobject.md" >}}
[PureDataObjectFactory]: {{< relref "puredataobjectfactory.md" >}}
[SharedCounter]: {{< relref "/docs/data-structures/counter.md" >}}
[SharedMap]: {{< relref "/docs/data-structures/map.md" >}}
[SharedNumberSequence]: {{< relref "sequences.md#sharedobjectsequence-and-sharednumbersequence" >}}
[SharedObjectSequence]: {{< relref "sequences.md#sharedobjectsequence-and-sharednumbersequence" >}}
[SharedSequence]: {{< relref "sequences.md" >}}
[SharedString]: {{< relref "string.md" >}}

> [TaskManager]: {{< relref "/docs/data-structures/task-manager.md" >}}

Reviewer 2: What's this auto-generated from? Most of these things are not included in the fluid-framework package

Author: See the reference at the top of the links section. These are "global links."
